# 0-order Logic or Proposicional Logic

## Entities
1. Propositional Symbols (like variables that can take truth values: true or false)
2. Logical Connectives: not, and, or, implication, Biconditional (biimplication)
3. Model (a instantiation of the proposicional symbols)
4. Knowledge Base (KB): a set of sentences known to be true
5. Entailment (⊨): a knwoledge that can be used to prove something is true, "α ⊨ β (α entails β), then in any world where α is true, β is true, too"

## Inferring new knowledge

### knowledge inferring algorithm 
Algorithm to "infer new knowledge based on existing knowledge". In my words: takes a set of symbols and a knowledge base, and a target sentence (known as query). The goal is to find if the target sentence is true for these symbols and KB. In other words, the goal is to know if the KB entails the sentence.

#### Model Checking algorithm
This algorithm finds if the KB entails the sentence by trying all possible models (values the proposicional symbols), and evaluating the KB and the sentence.
The KB entails the sentences if the sentence is true for every model for which the KB is true.
It may use backtract and some branch cutting heuristics to avoid models known to be false for the KB.

What is the relation of this algorithm to Prolog's algorithm?

### Knowledge engineering
The process of representing knowledge.
Example in Proposicional Logic, propositions:
1. Color is blue
2. Harry hits a jonron
3. Is in position 1

If mixing several properties using Proposicional Logic, things get a bit verbose but it is still possible. Example:
1. Represent blue and red colors and positions 1 and two:
   1. Color is blue and in position 1
   2. Color is blue and in position 2
   3. Color is red and in position 1
   4. Color is red and in position 2
   5. (1 and 4) or (2 and 3)

First-order logic includes properties in the propositions using quantifiers: for-all, exists.

### Inference Rules
1. Modus Ponens: a->b, a :- b
2. And elimination: a^b :- a
3. Double negation elimination: ¬(¬a) :- a
4. Implication elimination: a->b :- ¬aVb
5. biconditional elimination: a<->b :- (a->b)^(b->a)
6. Morgan's law: 
   1. ¬(a^b) :- ¬aV¬b
   2. ¬(aVb) :- ¬a^¬b
7. Distributive property:
   1. (a^(bVc)) :- (a^b)V(a^c)
   2. (aV(b^c)) :- (aVb)^(aVc)
8. Resolution: 
   1. aVb, ¬a :- b
   2. aVb, ¬aVc :- bVc

### Knowledge and Search Problems
Inference can be viewed as a search problem with the following properties:

- Initial state: starting knowledge base
- Actions: inference rules
- Transition model: new knowledge base after inference
- Goal test: checking whether the statement that we are trying to prove is in the KB
- Path cost function: the number of steps in the proof

This shows just how versatile search algorithms are, allowing us to derive new information based on existing knowledge using inference rules.

### The Resolution Algorithm

Algorithm or resolution technique for deciding if KB entails S (KB ⊨ S), known as the "satisfiability of a propositional formula".
"It uses proof by contradiction and is based on the fact that any sentence in propositional logic can be transformed into an equivalent sentence in conjunctive normal form (CNF) [wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Resolution_(logic)).

#### Entities - Conjunctive Normal Form
- disjunction: symbols connected with ORs, e.g. aVbVc
- conjunction: symbols connected with ANDs, e.g. a^b^c
- literal: symbol or a negated symbol, e.g. a, ¬a
- clause: disjunction of literals, e.g. ¬aVbVc
- Conjunctive Normal Form (CNF): conjunction of clauses, e.g.: (aVbVc) ^ (dV¬e) ^ (fVg)

#### Steps in Conversion of Propositions to Conjunctive Normal Form
Any sentence in propositional logic can be transformed into an equivalent sentence in conjunctive normal form (CNF). Steps:

1. Eliminate biconditionals
2. Eliminate implications
3. Move negation inwards until only literals are being negated (and not clauses), using De Morgan’s Laws

#### The Algorithm
In general, to determine if KB ⊨ α, check if (KB ∧ ¬α) a contradiction. If so, then KB ⊨ α; otherwise, no entailment.

More specifically, to determine if KB ⊨ α:
1. Convert (KB ∧ ¬α) to Conjunctive Normal Form.
2. Keep checking to see if we can use resolution to produce a new clause
3. If we ever produce the empty clause (equivalent to False), congratulations! We have arrived at a contradiction, thus proving that KB ⊨ α.
4. However, if contradiction is not achieved and no more clauses can be inferred, there is no entailment.

# First Order Logic or Predicate Logic

Another formal language.
Extends the Proposicional Logic or 0-Order Logic with quantifiers and predictates (aka relations or functions).
Allows us to express more complex ideas more succinctly than propositional logic.

## Entities 
1. Constant symbols: represent objects
2. Predicate symbols: represent relations or functions, take arguments and return a true or false value. For example, we can express the idea that Minerva is a person using the sentence $Person(Minerva)$.
3. Universal Quantification: represent sentences without using a specific constant symbol. Uses the symbol $∀$ to express “for all”. For example, the sentence $∀x, BelongsTo(x, Gryffindor) → ¬BelongsTo(x, Hufflepuff)$ expresses the idea that it is true for every symbol that if this symbol belongs to Gryffindor, it does not belong to Hufflepuff.
4. Existential Quantification: used to create sentences that are true for at least one x. For example, the sentence $∃x, House(x) ∧ BelongsTo(Minerva, x)$.